  Short description Branch of mathematics  
  Use dmy dates date June 2020  
  Use American English date   March 2019  
  File:Bass Guitar Time Signal of open string A note  55 Hz .png thumb upright 1.5  Bass guitar time signal of open string A note  55 Hz .  
  File:Fourier Transform of bass guitar time signal.png thumb upright 1.5  Fourier transform of bass guitar time signal of open string A note  55 Hz . Fourier analysis reveals the oscillatory components of signals and                 functions  .  
  Fourier transforms  

In   mathematics  , '''Fourier analysis'''    IPAc-en ˈ f ʊr i eɪ ,_ - i ər                                         is the study of the way general                          functions   may be represented or approximated by sums of simpler   trigonometric functions  . Fourier analysis grew from the study of   Fourier series  , and is named after   Joseph Fourier  , who showed that representing a function as a             sum   of trigonometric functions greatly simplifies the study of   heat transfer  .

The subject of Fourier analysis encompasses a vast spectrum of mathematics. In the sciences and engineering, the process of decomposing a function into               oscillatory   components is often called Fourier analysis, while the operation of rebuilding the function from these pieces is known as '''Fourier synthesis'''. For example, determining what component             frequencies   are present in a musical note would involve computing the Fourier transform of a sampled musical note. One could then re-synthesize the same sound by including the frequency components as revealed in the Fourier analysis. In mathematics, the term ''Fourier analysis'' often refers to the study of both operations.

The decomposition process itself is called a   Fourier transformation  . Its output, the   Fourier transform  , is often given a more specific name, which depends on the                        domain   and other properties of the function being transformed. Moreover, the original concept of Fourier analysis has been extended over time to apply to more and more abstract and general situations, and the general field is often known as   harmonic analysis  . Each                           transform   used for analysis  see   list of Fourier-related transforms    has a corresponding                    inverse   transform that can be used for synthesis.

To use Fourier analysis, data must be equally spaced. Different approaches have been developed for analyzing unequally spaced data, notably the   least-squares spectral analysis    LSSA  methods that use a   least squares   fit of             sinusoid  s to data samples, similar to Fourier analysis.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fourier analysis, the most used spectral method in science, generally boosts long-periodic noise in long gapped records; LSSA mitigates such problems.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  Applications  
Fourier analysis has many scientific applications   in   physics  ,   partial differential equation  s,   number theory  ,   combinatorics  ,   signal processing  ,   digital image processing  ,   probability theory  ,   statistics  ,   forensics  ,   option pricing  ,   cryptography  ,   numerical analysis  ,   acoustics  ,   oceanography  ,   sonar  ,   optics  ,   diffraction  ,   geometry  ,   protein   structure analysis, and other areas.

This wide applicability stems from many useful properties of the transforms''':'''
  The transforms are   linear operator  s and, with proper normalization, are                    unitary   as well  a property known as   Parseval's theorem   or, more generally, as the   Plancherel theorem  , and most generally via   Pontryagin duality   .                 
  The transforms are usually invertible.
  The   exponential function  s are   eigenfunction  s of              differentiation  , which means that this representation transforms linear   differential equation  s with   constant coefficients   into ordinary algebraic ones.                  Therefore, the behavior of a              linear time-invariant system   can be analyzed at each frequency independently.
  By the   convolution theorem  , Fourier transforms turn the complicated   convolution   operation into simple multiplication, which means that they provide an efficient way to compute convolution-based operations such as signal filtering,   polynomial   multiplication, and                                                      multiplying large numbers  .                 
  The                              discrete   version of the Fourier transform  see below  can be evaluated quickly on computers using   fast Fourier transform    FFT  algorithms.                 

In forensics, laboratory infrared spectrophotometers use Fourier transform analysis for measuring the wavelengths of light at which a material will absorb in the infrared spectrum. The FT method is used to decode the measured signals and record the wavelength data. And by using a computer, these Fourier calculations are rapidly carried out, so that in a matter of seconds, a computer-operated FT-IR instrument can produce an infrared absorption pattern comparable to that of a prism instrument.                      

Fourier transformation is also useful as a compact representation of a signal. For example,   JPEG   compression uses a variant of the Fourier transformation    discrete cosine transform    of small square pieces of a digital image. The Fourier components of each square are rounded to lower                          arithmetic precision  , and weak components are eliminated, so that the remaining components can be stored very compactly. In image reconstruction, each image square is reassembled from the preserved approximate Fourier-transformed components, which are then inverse-transformed to produce an approximation of the original image.

In   signal processing  , the Fourier transform often takes a   time series   or a function of   continuous time  , and maps it into a   frequency spectrum  . That is, it takes a function from the time domain into the   frequency   domain; it is a                     decomposition   of a function into             sinusoids   of different frequencies; in the case of a   Fourier series   or   discrete Fourier transform  , the sinusoids are   harmonic  s of the fundamental frequency of the function being analyzed.

When a function  math s t   math  is a function of time and represents a physical                               signal  , the transform has a standard interpretation as the frequency spectrum of the signal. The                           magnitude   of the resulting complex-valued function  math S f   math  at frequency  math f  math  represents the   amplitude   of a frequency component whose                 initial phase   is given by the angle of  math S f   math   polar coordinates .

Fourier transforms are not limited to functions of time, and temporal frequencies. They can equally be applied to analyze ''spatial'' frequencies, and indeed for nearly any function domain. This justifies their use in such diverse branches as   image processing  ,   heat conduction  , and   automatic control  .

When processing signals, such as         audio  ,   radio wave  s, light waves,   seismic wave  s, and even images, Fourier analysis can isolate narrowband components of a compound waveform, concentrating them for easier detection or removal. A large family of signal processing techniques consist of Fourier-transforming a signal, manipulating the Fourier-transformed data in a simple way, and reversing the transformation.                   

Some examples include''':'''
                         Equalization   of audio recordings with a series of   bandpass filter  s;
  Digital radio reception without a   superheterodyne   circuit, as in a modern cell phone or   radio scanner  ;
    Image processing   to remove periodic or   anisotropic   artifacts such as   jaggies   from   interlaced video  , strip artifacts from   strip aerial photography  , or wave patterns from   radio frequency interference   in a digital camera;
    Cross correlation   of similar images for co-alignment;
    X-ray crystallography   to reconstruct a crystal structure from its diffraction pattern;
    Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance   mass spectrometry to determine the mass of ions from the frequency of cyclotron motion in a magnetic field;
  Many other forms of spectroscopy, including                         infrared   and   nuclear magnetic resonance   spectroscopies;
  Generation of sound   spectrogram  s used to analyze sounds;
  Passive   sonar   used to classify targets based on machinery noise.

  Variants of Fourier analysis  
  File:Fourier transform, Fourier series, DTFT, DFT.svg thumb 400px A Fourier transform and 3 variations caused by periodic sampling  at interval  math T  math   and or periodic summation  at interval  math P  math   of the underlying time-domain function. The relative computational ease of the DFT sequence and the insight it gives into  math S f   math  make it a popular analysis tool.  

    Continuous  Fourier transform   
  main Fourier transform  

Most often, the unqualified term '''Fourier transform''' refers to the transform of functions of a continuous               real   argument, and it produces a continuous function of frequency, known as a ''frequency distribution''. One function is transformed into another, and the operation is reversible. When the domain of the input  initial  function is time   math t  math  , and the domain of the output  final  function is             ordinary frequency  , the transform of function  math s t   math  at frequency  math f  math  is given by the   complex number  ''':'''

: math S f     int_ - infty    infty  s t   cdot e  - i2 pi f t   , dt.  math 

Evaluating this quantity for all values of  math f  math  produces the ''frequency-domain'' function. Then  math s t   math  can be represented as a recombination of   complex exponentials   of all possible frequencies''':'''

: math s t     int_ - infty    infty  S f   cdot e  i2 pi f t   , df,  math 

which is the inverse transform formula. The complex number,  math S f ,  math  conveys both amplitude and phase of frequency  math f.  math 

See   Fourier transform   for much more information, including''':'''
  conventions for amplitude normalization and frequency scaling units
  transform properties
  tabulated transforms of specific functions
  an extension generalization for functions of multiple dimensions, such as images.

   Fourier series   
  Main Fourier series  

The Fourier transform of a periodic function,  math s_ _P  t ,  math  with period  math P,  math  becomes a   Dirac comb   function, modulated by a sequence of complex   coefficients  ''':'''

: math S k     frac 1  P  int_ P  s_ _P  t  cdot e  -i2 pi  frac k  P  t  , dt,  quad k in Z,  math   nbsp;  nbsp;  where  math  int_ P   math  is the integral over any interval of length  math P  math  .

The inverse transform, known as '''Fourier series''', is a representation of  math s_ _P  t   math  in terms of a summation of a potentially infinite number of harmonically related sinusoids or                        complex exponential   functions, each with an amplitude and phase specified by one of the coefficients''':'''

: math s_ _P  t           mathcal F   -1  left   sum_ k - infty     infty  S k  ,  delta  left f- frac k  P  right  right            sum_ k - infty   infty S k  cdot e  i2 pi  frac k  P  t .  math 

Any  math s_ _P  t   math  can be expressed as a   periodic summation   of another function,  math s t   math ''':'''

: math s_ _P  t   , triangleq ,  sum_ m - infty   infty s t-mP ,  math 

and the coefficients are proportional to samples of  math S f   math  at discrete intervals of  math  frac 1  P   math ''':'''

: math S k    frac 1  P  cdot S left  frac k  P  right .  math   efn-ua
  math  int_ P   left  sum_ m - infty    infty  s t-mP  right   cdot e  -i2 pi  frac k  P  t   ,dt    underbrace  int_ - infty    infty  s t   cdot e  -i2 pi  frac k  P  t   ,dt _  triangleq , S left  frac k  P  right    math 
  

Note that any  math s t   math  whose transform has the same discrete sample values can be used in the periodic summation.  A sufficient condition for recovering  math s t   math   and therefore  math S f   math   from just these samples  i.e. from the Fourier series  is that the non-zero portion of  math s t   math  be confined to a known interval of duration  math P,  math  which is the frequency domain dual of the   Nyquist Shannon sampling theorem  .

See   Fourier series   for more information, including the historical development.

   Discrete-time Fourier transform  DTFT    
  main Discrete-time Fourier transform  

The DTFT is the mathematical dual of the time-domain Fourier series. Thus, a convergent   periodic summation   in the frequency domain can be represented by a Fourier series, whose coefficients are samples of a related continuous time function''':'''

: math S_ tfrac 1  T  f    triangleq   underbrace  sum_ k - infty    infty  S left f -  frac k  T  right   equiv  overbrace  sum_ n - infty    infty  s n   cdot e  -i2 pi f n T     text Fourier series  DTFT    _  text Poisson summation formula      mathcal F   left     sum_ n - infty    infty  s n    delta t-nT  right   , ,  math 

which is known as the DTFT. Thus the '''DTFT''' of the  math s n   math  sequence is also the '''Fourier transform''' of the modulated   Dirac comb   function.  efn-ua 
We may also note that''':'''
: math  begin align   sum_ n - infty     infty  T cdot s nT   delta t-nT      sum_ n - infty     infty  T cdot s t   delta t-nT        s t  cdot T  sum_ n - infty     infty   delta t-nT .  end align   math 
Consequently, a common practice is to model  sampling  as a multiplication by the   Dirac comb   function, which of course is only  possible  in a purely mathematical sense. br  br 
  

The Fourier series coefficients  and inverse transform , are defined by''':'''

: math s n    triangleq  T  int_ frac 1  T  S_ tfrac 1  T  f  cdot e  i2 pi f nT   ,df   T  underbrace  int_ - infty    infty  S f  cdot e  i2 pi f nT   ,df _  triangleq , s nT  .  math 

Parameter  math T  math  corresponds to the sampling interval, and this Fourier series can now be recognized as a form of the   Poisson summation formula  . nbsp; Thus we have the important result that when a discrete data sequence,  math s n ,  math  is proportional to samples of an underlying continuous function,  math s t ,  math  one can observe a periodic summation of the continuous Fourier transform,  math S f .  math  Note that any  math s t   math  with the same discrete sample values produces the same DTFT. nbsp; But under certain idealized conditions one can theoretically recover  math S f   math  and  math s t   math  exactly. A sufficient condition for perfect recovery is that the non-zero portion of  math S f   math  be confined to a known frequency interval of width  math  tfrac 1  T .  math  nbsp; When that interval is  math  left - tfrac 1  2T ,  tfrac 1  2T  right ,  math  the applicable reconstruction formula is the   Whittaker Shannon interpolation formula  .  This is a cornerstone in the foundation of   digital signal processing  .

Another reason to be interested in  math S_ tfrac 1  T  f   math  is that it often provides insight into the amount of   aliasing   caused by the sampling process.

Applications of the DTFT are not limited to sampled functions. See   Discrete-time Fourier transform   for more information on this and other topics, including''':'''
  normalized frequency units
  windowing  finite-length sequences 
  transform properties
  tabulated transforms of specific functions

   Discrete Fourier transform  DFT    
  main Discrete Fourier transform  

Similar to a Fourier series, the DTFT of a periodic sequence,  math s_ _N  n ,  math  with period  math N  math , becomes a Dirac comb function, modulated by a sequence of complex coefficients  see   slink DTFT Periodic data   ''':'''

: math S k     sum_n s_ _N  n  cdot e  -i2 pi  frac k  N  n ,  quad k in Z,  math   nbsp;  nbsp;  where  math  sum_ n   math  is the sum over any sequence of length  math N.  math  

The  math S k   math  sequence is customarily known as the '''DFT''' of one cycle of  math s_ _N .  math  It is also  math N  math -periodic, so it is never necessary to compute more than  math N  math  coefficients. The inverse transform, also known as a   discrete Fourier series  , is given by''':'''

: math s_ _N  n     frac 1  N   sum_ k  S k  cdot e  i2 pi  frac n  N k ,  math   nbsp; where  math  sum_ k   math  is the sum over any sequence of length  math N.  math 

When  math s_ _N  n   math  is expressed as a   periodic summation   of another function''':'''

: math s_ _N  n  ,  triangleq ,  sum_ m - infty    infty  s n-mN ,  math   nbsp; and  nbsp;  math s n  ,  triangleq , T cdot s nT ,  math 

the coefficients are samples of  math S_ tfrac 1  T  f   math  at discrete intervals of  math  tfrac 1  P     tfrac 1  NT   math ''':'''

: math S k    S_ tfrac 1  T  left  frac k  P  right .  math 

Conversely, when one wants to compute an arbitrary number  math  N   math  of discrete samples of one cycle of a continuous DTFT,  math S_ tfrac 1  T  f ,  math  it can be done by computing the relatively simple DFT of  math s_ _N  n ,  math  as defined above. In most cases,  math N  math  is chosen equal to the length of the non-zero portion of  math s n .  math  Increasing  math N,  math  known as ''zero-padding'' or ''interpolation'', results in more closely spaced samples of one cycle of  math S_ tfrac 1  T  f .  math  Decreasing  math N,  math  causes overlap  adding  in the time-domain  analogous to   aliasing   , which corresponds to decimation in the frequency domain.  see   slink Discrete-time Fourier transform 2 L N I    In most cases of practical interest, the  math s n   math  sequence represents a longer sequence that was truncated by the application of a finite-length   window function   or   FIR filter   array.

The DFT can be computed using a   fast Fourier transform    FFT  algorithm, which makes it a practical and important transformation on computers.

See   Discrete Fourier transform   for much more information, including''':'''
  transform properties
  applications
  tabulated transforms of specific functions

   Summary   
For periodic functions, both the Fourier transform and the DTFT comprise only a discrete set of frequency components  Fourier series , and the transforms diverge at those frequencies. One common practice  not discussed above  is to handle that divergence via   Dirac delta   and   Dirac comb   functions. But the same spectral information can be discerned from just one cycle of the periodic function, since all the other cycles are identical. Similarly, finite-duration functions can be represented as a Fourier series, with no actual loss of information except that the periodicity of the inverse transform is a mere artifact.

It is common in practice for the duration of ''s''    to be limited to the period,   mvar P   or   mvar N  . nbsp; But these formulas do not require that condition.
   class  wikitable  style  text-align:left 
    math s t   math  transforms  continuous-time 
 -
! !! Continuous frequency !! Discrete frequencies
 -
! Transform
   math S f  ,  triangleq ,  int_ - infty    infty  s t   cdot e  -i2 pi f t   ,dt  math 
    math  underbrace  frac 1  P  cdot S left  frac k  P  right  _  S k   ,  triangleq ,  frac 1  P   int_ - infty    infty  s t   cdot e  -i2 pi  frac k  P  t  ,dt  equiv  frac 1  P   int_P s_ _P  t   cdot e  -i2 pi  frac k  P  t   ,dt  math 
 -
! Inverse
   math s t     int_ - infty    infty  S f   cdot e   i2 pi f t  , df  math 
   math  underbrace s_ _P  t     sum_ k - infty    infty  S k   cdot e  i2 pi  frac k  P  t  _  text Poisson summation formula  Fourier series    ,  math 
  

   class  wikitable  style  text-align:left 
    math s nT   math  transforms  discrete-time 
 -
! !! Continuous frequency !! Discrete frequencies
 -
! Transform
   math  underbrace S_ tfrac 1  T  f  ,  triangleq ,  sum_ n - infty    infty  s n  cdot e  -i2 pi f nT  _  text Poisson summation formula  DTFT     math 
  
 math 
 begin align 
 underbrace S_ tfrac 1  T  left  frac k  NT  right  _  S k   ,   triangleq ,  sum_ n - infty    infty  s n  cdot e  -i2 pi  frac kn  N    
  equiv  underbrace  sum_ N  s_ _N  n  cdot e  -i2 pi  frac kn  N   _  text DFT   ,
 end align 
  math 
 -
! Inverse
   math s n     underbrace T  int_ frac 1  T  S_ tfrac 1  T  f  cdot e  i2 pi f nT   ,df _  text Fourier series coefficient    math 
 math  sum_ n - infty    infty  s n  cdot  delta t-nT     underbrace  int_ - infty    infty  S_ tfrac 1  T  f  cdot e  i2 pi f t  ,df _  text inverse Fourier transform   ,  math 
  
 math 
s_ _N  n     underbrace  frac 1  N   sum_ N  S k  cdot e  i2 pi  frac kn  N   _  text inverse DFT  
  math 
  

  Symmetry properties  
When the real and imaginary parts of a complex function are decomposed into their                                                 even and odd parts  , there are four components, denoted below by the subscripts RE, RO, IE, and IO. And there is a one-to-one mapping between the four components of a complex time function and the four components of its complex frequency transform''':'''                   

: math 
 begin array  rccccccccc 
 text Time domain    s       s_ _  text RE          s_ _  text RO          i s_ _  text IE           underbrace i  s_ _  text IO       
  Bigg Updownarrow mathcal F      Bigg Updownarrow mathcal F          Bigg Updownarrow mathcal F          Bigg Updownarrow mathcal F          Bigg Updownarrow mathcal F   
 text Frequency domain    S       S_ text RE         overbrace  ,i  S_ text IO  ,        i S_ text IE        S_ text RO 
 end array 
  math 

From this, various relationships are apparent, for example''':'''
 The transform of a real-valued function  math  s_ _ RE   s_ _ RO     math  is the                                                   ''conjugate symmetric''   function  math S_ RE  i  S_ IO .  math   Conversely, a ''conjugate symmetric'' transform implies a real-valued time-domain.
 The transform of an imaginary-valued function  math  i  s_ _ IE   i  s_ _ IO     math  is the                                                   ''conjugate antisymmetric''   function  math S_ RO  i  S_ IE ,  math  and the converse is true.
 The transform of a                                                   ''conjugate symmetric''   function  math  s_ _ RE   i  s_ _ IO     math  is the real-valued function  math S_ RE  S_ RO ,  math  and the converse is true.
 The transform of a                                                   ''conjugate antisymmetric''   function  math  s_ _ RO   i  s_ _ IE     math  is the imaginary-valued function  math i  S_ IE  i  S_ IO ,  math  and the converse is true.

  History  
  See also Fourier series Historical development  

An early form of harmonic series dates back to ancient   Babylonian mathematics  , where they were used to compute   ephemerides    tables of astronomical positions .                                                                           

The Classical Greek concepts of   deferent and epicycle   in the   Ptolemaic system   of astronomy were related to Fourier series  see   slink Deferent and epicycle Mathematical formalism   .

In modern times, variants of the discrete Fourier transform were used by   Alexis Clairaut   in 1754 to compute an orbit,                  
which has been described as the first formula for the DFT,                  
and in 1759 by   Joseph Louis Lagrange  , in computing the coefficients of a trigonometric series for a vibrating string.                   Technically, Clairaut's work was a cosine-only series  a form of   discrete cosine transform   , while Lagrange's work was a sine-only series  a form of   discrete sine transform   ; a true cosine sine DFT was used by                        Gauss   in 1805 for   trigonometric interpolation   of   asteroid   orbits.                      
Euler and Lagrange both discretized the vibrating string problem, using what would today be called samples.                  

An early modern development toward Fourier analysis was the 1770 paper ''  Réflexions sur la résolution algébrique des équations  '' by Lagrange, which in the method of   Lagrange resolvents   used a complex Fourier decomposition to study the solution of a cubic''':'''                 
Lagrange transformed the roots  math x_1,  math   math x_2,  math   math x_3  math  into the resolvents''':'''
                                                                                           
: math  begin align 
r_1    x_1   x_2   x_3  
r_2    x_1    zeta x_2    zeta 2 x_3  
r_3    x_1    zeta 2 x_2    zeta x_3
 end align   math 
where   mvar ζ   is a cubic   root of unity  , which is the DFT of order 3.

A number of authors, notably   Jean le Rond d'Alembert  , and   Carl Friedrich Gauss   used   trigonometric series   to study the   heat equation  ,                       but the breakthrough development was the 1807 paper ''  Mémoire sur la propagation de la chaleur dans les corps solides  '' by   Joseph Fourier  , whose crucial insight was to model ''all'' functions by trigonometric series, introducing the Fourier series.

Historians are divided as to how much to credit Lagrange and others for the development of Fourier theory''':'''   Daniel Bernoulli   and   Leonhard Euler   had introduced trigonometric representations of functions, and Lagrange had given the Fourier series solution to the wave equation, so Fourier's contribution was mainly the bold claim that an arbitrary function could be represented by a Fourier series.                  

The subsequent development of the field is known as   harmonic analysis  , and is also an early instance of   representation theory  .

The first fast Fourier transform  FFT  algorithm for the DFT was discovered around 1805 by   Carl Friedrich Gauss   when interpolating measurements of the orbit of the asteroids          Juno   and            Pallas  , although that particular FFT algorithm is more often attributed to its modern rediscoverers                              Cooley and Tukey  .                                        

  Time frequency transforms  
  Further Time frequency analysis  

In   signal processing   terms, a function  of time  is a representation of a signal with perfect ''time resolution'', but no frequency information, while the Fourier transform has perfect ''frequency resolution'', but no time information.

As alternatives to the Fourier transform, in   time frequency analysis  , one uses time frequency transforms to represent signals in a form that has some time information and some frequency information   by the   uncertainty principle  , there is a trade-off between these. These can be generalizations of the Fourier transform, such as the   short-time Fourier transform  , the   Gabor transform   or   fractional Fourier transform    FRFT , or can use different functions to represent signals, as in   wavelet transforms   and   chirplet transform  s, with the wavelet analog of the  continuous  Fourier transform being the   continuous wavelet transform  .

  Fourier transforms on arbitrary locally compact abelian topological groups  
The Fourier variants can also be generalized to Fourier transforms on arbitrary   locally compact                   Abelian     topological group  s, which are studied in   harmonic analysis  ; there, the Fourier transform takes functions on a group to functions on the dual group. This treatment also allows a general formulation of the   convolution theorem  , which relates Fourier transforms and   convolution  s. See also the   Pontryagin duality   for the generalized underpinnings of the Fourier transform.

More specific, Fourier analysis can be done on cosets,                    even discrete cosets.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               